DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# 🚀 Deployment Guide

This guide will help you deploy your Task Manager MVP to the internet so you can access it from anywhere!

## 📋 Table of Contents
- [Option 1: Render + Vercel (Recommended for Beginners)](#option-1-render--vercel-easiest)
- [Option 2: Railway (All-in-One)](#option-2-railway-all-in-one)
- [Option 3: Heroku](#option-3-heroku)
- [Option 4: Docker Deployment](#option-4-docker-deployment)

---

## Option 1: Render + Vercel (Easiest)

This option deploys your backend on Render (free tier) and frontend on Vercel (free tier).

### Part A: Deploy Backend to Render

#### Step 1: Create a Render Account
1. Go to https://render.com
2. Sign up for a free account (use GitHub to sign in)

#### Step 2: Prepare Backend for Render
Create a `render.yaml` in the root directory:

```yaml
services:
  - type: web
    name: task-manager-api
    env: python
    buildCommand: "pip install -r backend/requirements.txt"
    startCommand: "cd backend && gunicorn app:app"
    envVars:
      - key: PYTHON_VERSION
        value: 3.9.0
```

Add `gunicorn` to `backend/requirements.txt`:
```
Flask==2.3.2
Flask-CORS==4.0.0
Flask-SQLAlchemy==3.0.5
python-dotenv==1.0.0
gunicorn==21.2.0
```

#### Step 3: Deploy on Render
1. Click "New +" → "Web Service"
2. Connect your GitHub repository
3. Select your repository
4. Render will auto-detect Python
5. Configure:
   - **Name**: task-manager-api
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r backend/requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `cd backend && gunicorn app:app`
6. Click "Create Web Service"
7. Wait for deployment (takes 2-5 minutes)
8. Copy your API URL (e.g., `https://task-manager-api.onrender.com`)

### Part B: Deploy Frontend to Vercel

#### Step 1: Update Frontend API URL
In `frontend/src/App.js`, update line 5:
```javascript
const API_URL = process.env.REACT_APP_API_URL || 'https://YOUR-RENDER-URL.onrender.com';
```
Replace `YOUR-RENDER-URL` with your Render URL from above.

Or create `frontend/.env.production`:
```
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://YOUR-RENDER-URL.onrender.com
```

#### Step 2: Deploy to Vercel

**🚨 IMPORTANT: You MUST set the Root Directory to `frontend`**

1. Go to https://vercel.com
2. Sign up (use GitHub)
3. Click "Add New" → "Project"
4. Import your repository
5. **Configure Build Settings** (CRITICAL):
   - **Root Directory**: Click "Edit" and type `frontend` (⚠️ This is the most important step!)
   - **Framework Preset**: Create React App (auto-detected)
   - **Build Command**: `npm run build` (auto-detected)
   - **Output Directory**: `build` (auto-detected)
6. **Add Environment Variable**:
   - Click "Environment Variables"
   - **Key**: `REACT_APP_API_URL`
   - **Value**: `https://YOUR-RENDER-URL.onrender.com`
7. Click "Deploy"
8. Wait 1-2 minutes
9. Click on your live URL!

**Alternative**: A `vercel.json` configuration file has been included in the repository root to help with deployment.

### ✅ Done! Your app is live!

---

## Option 2: Railway (All-in-One)

Railway can host both frontend and backend together.

#### Step 1: Create Railway Account
1. Go to https://railway.app
2. Sign up with GitHub

#### Step 2: Prepare for Railway
Create `railway.toml` in root:
```toml
[build]
builder = "NIXPACKS"

[deploy]
startCommand = "cd backend && gunicorn app:app"
restartPolicyType = "ON_FAILURE"
restartPolicyMaxRetries = 10
```

Add `gunicorn` to `backend/requirements.txt`

#### Step 3: Deploy
1. Click "New Project"
2. Select "Deploy from GitHub repo"
3. Choose your repository
4. Railway auto-deploys both services
5. Set environment variables in Railway dashboard
6. Get your public URL

---

## Option 3: Heroku

Heroku offers a straightforward deployment option.

#### Step 1: Install Heroku CLI
```bash
# macOS
brew install heroku/brew/heroku

# Windows
# Download from https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli

# Linux
curl https://cli-assets.heroku.com/install.sh | sh
```

#### Step 2: Prepare Backend
Create `backend/Procfile`:
```
web: gunicorn app:app
```

Add `gunicorn` to `backend/requirements.txt`

#### Step 3: Deploy Backend
```bash
cd backend
heroku login
heroku create your-app-name-api
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Deploy backend"
heroku git:remote -a your-app-name-api
git push heroku main
```

#### Step 4: Deploy Frontend
Update `REACT_APP_API_URL` in frontend, then:
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
# Deploy build folder to Netlify or Vercel (see Option 1)
```

---

## Option 4: Docker Deployment

Use the existing Docker setup for deployment.

#### Step 1: Update docker-compose.yml
Already configured! Just update environment variables:

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  backend:
    build: ./backend
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
    environment:
      - FLASK_ENV=production

  frontend:
    build: ./frontend
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:5000
    depends_on:
      - backend
```

#### Step 2: Deploy to Any Cloud Provider
```bash
# Build and run
docker-compose up -d

# Or deploy to:
# - AWS ECS
# - Google Cloud Run
# - DigitalOcean App Platform
# - Azure Container Instances
```

---

## 🌍 Deployment Checklist

Before deploying, ensure:

- [ ] Backend `requirements.txt` includes `gunicorn`
- [ ] Frontend `.env.production` has correct API URL
- [ ] Database is configured (SQLite works, but consider PostgreSQL for production)
- [ ] CORS is properly configured in backend
- [ ] Environment variables are set in deployment platform
- [ ] Git repository is up to date

---

## 🔒 Production Best Practices

### Security
1. **Use Environment Variables** for sensitive data
2. **Enable HTTPS** (most platforms do this automatically)
3. **Add rate limiting** to API endpoints
4. **Update dependencies** regularly

### Database
For production, consider upgrading from SQLite to PostgreSQL:
```python
# In backend/app.py, update:
app.config['SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI'] = os.getenv('DATABASE_URL', 'sqlite:///tasks.db')
```

Add to `requirements.txt`:
```
psycopg2-binary==2.9.9
```

### Performance
1. **Enable caching** for static assets
2. **Use CDN** for frontend (Vercel/Netlify do this automatically)
3. **Optimize images** if you add any
4. **Minify JavaScript** (React Scripts does this in build)

---

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Frontend can't connect to Backend
- Check CORS settings in `backend/app.py`
- Verify `REACT_APP_API_URL` is correct
- Ensure backend is deployed and running

### Database errors
- SQLite works for MVP but consider PostgreSQL for production
- Check file permissions for SQLite database
- Ensure database directory exists

### Build failures
- Check Node.js version (use v16+)
- Check Python version (use 3.8+)
- Clear cache and rebuild

---

## 📞 Quick Deploy Commands

### Render (Backend)
```bash
# Add gunicorn to requirements.txt
echo "gunicorn==21.2.0" >> backend/requirements.txt
git add . && git commit -m "Add gunicorn" && git push
# Then deploy via Render dashboard
```

### Vercel (Frontend)
```bash
cd frontend
npx vercel
# Follow prompts
```

### Railway (Full Stack)
```bash
# Install Railway CLI
npm i -g @railway/cli
railway login
railway init
railway up
```

---

## 🎉 After Deployment

Once deployed, you'll get URLs like:
- **Frontend**: `https://your-app.vercel.app`
- **Backend**: `https://your-api.onrender.com`

Share these with anyone to use your Task Manager!

---

## 💡 Free Tier Limits

| Platform | Limits | Best For |
|----------|--------|----------|
| **Vercel** | 100GB bandwidth/month | Frontend |
| **Render** | 750 hours/month, sleeps after 15min idle | Backend APIs |
| **Railway** | $5 free credit/month | Full stack |
| **Netlify** | 100GB bandwidth/month | Frontend |
| **Heroku** | No longer has free tier | Paid hosting |

**Pro Tip**: Render free tier "sleeps" after 15 minutes of inactivity, causing 30-60 second cold starts. Consider Railway or paid tier for production.

---

Need help? Check the platform-specific documentation or reach out!

Commit message:

Fix Vercel 'No Output Directory' error
- Update root vercel.json to use Vercel v2 build configuration
- Add vercel.json in frontend directory for SPA routing
- Add troubleshooting section in DEPLOYMENT.md for this specific error
- Provide clear steps to set Root Directory to 'frontend' in Vercel settings

This addresses the "No Output Directory named 'build' found" error
by ensuring proper monorepo configuration for Vercel deployment.

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# 🚀 Deployment Guide

This guide will help you deploy your Task Manager MVP to the internet so you can access it from anywhere!

## 📋 Table of Contents
- [Option 1: Render + Vercel (Recommended for Beginners)](#option-1-render--vercel-easiest)
- [Option 2: Railway (All-in-One)](#option-2-railway-all-in-one)
- [Option 3: Heroku](#option-3-heroku)
- [Option 4: Docker Deployment](#option-4-docker-deployment)

---

## Option 1: Render + Vercel (Easiest)

This option deploys your backend on Render (free tier) and frontend on Vercel (free tier).

### Part A: Deploy Backend to Render

#### Step 1: Create a Render Account
1. Go to https://render.com
2. Sign up for a free account (use GitHub to sign in)

#### Step 2: Prepare Backend for Render
Create a `render.yaml` in the root directory:

```yaml
services:
  - type: web
    name: task-manager-api
    env: python
    buildCommand: "pip install -r backend/requirements.txt"
    startCommand: "cd backend && gunicorn app:app"
    envVars:
      - key: PYTHON_VERSION
        value: 3.9.0
```

Add `gunicorn` to `backend/requirements.txt`:
```
Flask==2.3.2
Flask-CORS==4.0.0
Flask-SQLAlchemy==3.0.5
python-dotenv==1.0.0
gunicorn==21.2.0
```

#### Step 3: Deploy on Render
1. Click "New +" → "Web Service"
2. Connect your GitHub repository
3. Select your repository
4. Render will auto-detect Python
5. Configure:
   - **Name**: task-manager-api
   - **Build Command**: `pip install -r backend/requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command**: `cd backend && gunicorn app:app`
6. Click "Create Web Service"
7. Wait for deployment (takes 2-5 minutes)
8. Copy your API URL (e.g., `https://task-manager-api.onrender.com`)

### Part B: Deploy Frontend to Vercel

#### Step 1: Update Frontend API URL
In `frontend/src/App.js`, update line 5:
```javascript
const API_URL = process.env.REACT_APP_API_URL || 'https://YOUR-RENDER-URL.onrender.com';
```
Replace `YOUR-RENDER-URL` with your Render URL from above.

Or create `frontend/.env.production`:
```
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://YOUR-RENDER-URL.onrender.com
```

#### Step 2: Deploy to Vercel

**🚨 IMPORTANT: You MUST set the Root Directory to `frontend`**

1. Go to https://vercel.com
2. Sign up (use GitHub)
3. Click "Add New" → "Project"
4. Import your repository
5. **Configure Build Settings** (CRITICAL):
   - **Root Directory**: Click "Edit" and type `frontend` (⚠️ This is the most important step!)
   - **Framework Preset**: Create React App (auto-detected)
   - **Build Command**: `npm run build` (auto-detected)
   - **Output Directory**: `build` (auto-detected)
6. **Add Environment Variable**:
   - Click "Environment Variables"
   - **Key**: `REACT_APP_API_URL`
   - **Value**: `https://YOUR-RENDER-URL.onrender.com`
7. Click "Deploy"
8. Wait 1-2 minutes
9. Click on your live URL!

**Alternative**: A `vercel.json` configuration file has been included in the repository root to help with deployment.

### ✅ Done! Your app is live!

---

## Option 2: Railway (All-in-One)

Railway can host both frontend and backend together.

#### Step 1: Create Railway Account
1. Go to https://railway.app
2. Sign up with GitHub

#### Step 2: Prepare for Railway
Create `railway.toml` in root:
```toml
[build]
builder = "NIXPACKS"

[deploy]
startCommand = "cd backend && gunicorn app:app"
restartPolicyType = "ON_FAILURE"
restartPolicyMaxRetries = 10
```

Add `gunicorn` to `backend/requirements.txt`

#### Step 3: Deploy
1. Click "New Project"
2. Select "Deploy from GitHub repo"
3. Choose your repository
4. Railway auto-deploys both services
5. Set environment variables in Railway dashboard
6. Get your public URL

---

## Option 3: Heroku

Heroku offers a straightforward deployment option.

#### Step 1: Install Heroku CLI
```bash
# macOS
brew install heroku/brew/heroku

# Windows
# Download from https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli

# Linux
curl https://cli-assets.heroku.com/install.sh | sh
```

#### Step 2: Prepare Backend
Create `backend/Procfile`:
```
web: gunicorn app:app
```

Add `gunicorn` to `backend/requirements.txt`

#### Step 3: Deploy Backend
```bash
cd backend
heroku login
heroku create your-app-name-api
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Deploy backend"
heroku git:remote -a your-app-name-api
git push heroku main
```

#### Step 4: Deploy Frontend
Update `REACT_APP_API_URL` in frontend, then:
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
# Deploy build folder to Netlify or Vercel (see Option 1)
```

---

## Option 4: Docker Deployment

Use the existing Docker setup for deployment.

#### Step 1: Update docker-compose.yml
Already configured! Just update environment variables:

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  backend:
    build: ./backend
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
    environment:
      - FLASK_ENV=production

  frontend:
    build: ./frontend
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:5000
    depends_on:
      - backend
```

#### Step 2: Deploy to Any Cloud Provider
```bash
# Build and run
docker-compose up -d

# Or deploy to:
# - AWS ECS
# - Google Cloud Run
# - DigitalOcean App Platform
# - Azure Container Instances
```

---

## 🌍 Deployment Checklist

Before deploying, ensure:

- [ ] Backend `requirements.txt` includes `gunicorn`
- [ ] Frontend `.env.production` has correct API URL
- [ ] Database is configured (SQLite works, but consider PostgreSQL for production)
- [ ] CORS is properly configured in backend
- [ ] Environment variables are set in deployment platform
- [ ] Git repository is up to date

---

## 🔒 Production Best Practices

### Security
1. **Use Environment Variables** for sensitive data
2. **Enable HTTPS** (most platforms do this automatically)
3. **Add rate limiting** to API endpoints
4. **Update dependencies** regularly

### Database
For production, consider upgrading from SQLite to PostgreSQL:
```python
# In backend/app.py, update:
app.config['SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI'] = os.getenv('DATABASE_URL', 'sqlite:///tasks.db')
```

Add to `requirements.txt`:
```
psycopg2-binary==2.9.9
```

### Performance
1. **Enable caching** for static assets
2. **Use CDN** for frontend (Vercel/Netlify do this automatically)
3. **Optimize images** if you add any
4. **Minify JavaScript** (React Scripts does this in build)

---

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Frontend can't connect to Backend
- Check CORS settings in `backend/app.py`
- Verify `REACT_APP_API_URL` is correct
- Ensure backend is deployed and running

### Database errors
- SQLite works for MVP but consider PostgreSQL for production
- Check file permissions for SQLite database
- Ensure database directory exists

### Build failures
- Check Node.js version (use v16+)
- Check Python version (use 3.8+)
- Clear cache and rebuild

### Vercel: "No Output Directory named 'build' found"
This happens if the Root Directory is not set correctly:
1. Go to your Vercel project → Settings → General
2. Find "Root Directory"
3. Click "Edit" and enter: `frontend`
4. Click "Save"
5. Go to Deployments tab and redeploy
6. Alternatively, the repository includes `vercel.json` configs to help with this

---

## 📞 Quick Deploy Commands

### Render (Backend)
```bash
# Add gunicorn to requirements.txt
echo "gunicorn==21.2.0" >> backend/requirements.txt
git add . && git commit -m "Add gunicorn" && git push
# Then deploy via Render dashboard
```

### Vercel (Frontend)
```bash
cd frontend
npx vercel
# Follow prompts
```

### Railway (Full Stack)
```bash
# Install Railway CLI
npm i -g @railway/cli
railway login
railway init
railway up
```

---

## 🎉 After Deployment

Once deployed, you'll get URLs like:
- **Frontend**: `https://your-app.vercel.app`
- **Backend**: `https://your-api.onrender.com`

Share these with anyone to use your Task Manager!

---

## 💡 Free Tier Limits

| Platform | Limits | Best For |
|----------|--------|----------|
| **Vercel** | 100GB bandwidth/month | Frontend |
| **Render** | 750 hours/month, sleeps after 15min idle | Backend APIs |
| **Railway** | $5 free credit/month | Full stack |
| **Netlify** | 100GB bandwidth/month | Frontend |
| **Heroku** | No longer has free tier | Paid hosting |

**Pro Tip**: Render free tier "sleeps" after 15 minutes of inactivity, causing 30-60 second cold starts. Consider Railway or paid tier for production.

---

Need help? Check the platform-specific documentation or reach out!
